# from before we rebuilt ancestor search

## NOTES/LIMITATIONS
- The upper boundary used for ancestor search, which is determine by the CLADE/METACLADE/MACROCLADE, is used for the regional-base tables ()"${REGION_TAG}_min${MIN_OBS}_all_sp_and_ancestors\"), not on one of the clade-export specific tables in cladistic.sh. So this is at odds with the previous design (before we added ancestor-aware logic), where previously the _all_sp table only varied by the REGION_TAG/MIN_OBS. This is probably OK, and might even be necessary for the purposes of determining the exact set of ancestral taxonIDs that need to be included in the base tables when looking to export more than just research-grade observations (i.e. observations with an uncontested species-level label) but it is a bit of a departure from the previous design. So we need to confirm what the set of taxa in the _all_sp_and_ancestors table depends upon (I think it is only the REGION_TAG/MIN_OBS/boundary ranks), and we can potentially mitigate by adjusting the generated base tables names to include the highest root rank (or highest root ranks, in the case of metaclades with multiple root ranks) used in the ancestor search; this will properly version the regional base tables and prevent reuse of base tables when the ancestor scopes differ.
  - So this means that the boundaries of the ancestor search for generating the regional _all_sp_and_ancestors is defined with respect to the configured clade/metaclade for a job, and so the regional base table might need to be recreated for successive job using clades/metaclades with different root ranks.
    - Really, the ancestor-aware logic should be implemented on the cladistic.sh tables.
    - The regional base table names do not fully capture the 'versining', so e.g. a NAfull_min50_all_sp_and_ancestors table generated from a PTA (metaclade) job would not be reusable for a successive job that used a MACROCLADES["arthropoda"]='("L60_taxonID" = 47120)' macroclade, since the PTA root ranks are lower than the L60 rank-- so that regional base table would be missing L50 ancestors. 
      - This would actually be OK in theory but it might break some downstream assumptions, so it would be better to recreate the regional base table for each successive job if that job uses a different root rank.
      - TODO: Confirm that it is only the root rank, not the root taxonID, that is used to define the ancestor search for the regional base tables.
        - If the regional base table _all_sp_and_ancestors only varies by the REGION_TAG/MIN_OBS/boundary ranks, then we could mitigate by adjusting the generated base tables names to include the highest root rank used in the ancestor search.
        - Otherwise, we would need to include the CLADE/METACLADE/MACROCLADE in the regional base table name.
  - regional base table is an increasingly inappropraite name for this table. It was fine when the tables always just included the species in the region that passed the MIN_OBS threshold/the corresponding observations, but the contents of the table are now dependent on the CLADE/METACLADE/MACROCLADE.
    - This issue was averted for INCLUDE_OUT_OF_REGION_OBS, because the regional base observations table always include all observations for the species in the region that passed the MIN_OBS threshold (and now for all their ancestors in the scope of the ancestor search, too).
      - And then if INCLUDE_OUT_OF_REGION_OBS=false, then we re-applied the bounding box for the final table.
    - There might be a similar mitigation approach we could take for ancestor search here. A much more inclusive set of observations for, i.e. _all_sp_and_ancestors would include all species in the region that passed the MIN_OBS threshold and all the ancestors of those species up to but not including L100 (state of matter), i.e. unrestricted ancestor search. _sp_and_ancestors_obs would include all observations where taxon_id=[<a taxonID from _all_sp_and_ancestors].
      - By default, only search for the major-rank ancestors, i.e. L20, L30, L40, L50, L57, L60, L70. So INCLUDE_MINOR_RANKS_IN_ANCESTORS=false. If INCLUDE_MINOR_RANKS_IN_ANCESTORS=true, then include minor ranks in the unbounded ancestor search, and adjust the table names (_all_sp_and_ancestors_incl_minor_ranks, _sp_and_ancestors_obs_incl_minor_ranks). Searching minor ranks can occur significant performance penalty as only major ranks are indexed, and we will not need to use this in the intermediate future.
      - Possibly do a second ancestor search with only the set of ancestors that are up to the boundary rank for that export? This would be used for the filtering for the final table for that export job.
      - But then, for the final table, we'd need to apply a filter to exclude the observations that fall outside of the scope of the job/clade-specific ancestor search. It gets kind of complicated to define this filter-- do we consider the base taxonID of the observation? Not necessarily, since sometimes we wipe labels of some ranks if the no. observations for that taxonID are too low in the final step (depending on MIN_OCCURRENCES_PER_RANK, which is an alternate floor for wiping labels for higher ranks if the no. occurences for those taxonIDs are too low, while still keeping the observations if they have passing labels for some ranks that are not wiped, e.g. an observation has a non-research grade species label, so we wipe L10_taxonID to null, and it has a L20_taxonID label that is very rare, so occurs less than MIN_OCCURRENCES_PER_RANK in the final table, but it has a usable L30_taxonID label and we want to downstream model to be able to learn that a sample like 'that' should be learned as being in that family (L30).
    - My current standing is that we should do the ancestor search with the constrained upper boundary, and accept that we will lose some reusability between regional base tables between exports that use different clades/metaclades (but maybe can reuse if the ranks of the clades stay constant between jobs, need to confirm).
      - This simplifies the logic in cladistic.sh and preserves the functionality of the existing filters in cladistic.sh.
